Gallup: Isn't it unfair to treat people differently? Michael: I don't think so. 
I think people want to feel understood. Treating them differently 
is part of helping them feel unique. 

…Second, you may be wondering why there are no questions dealing with pay, benefits, senior management, or organisational structure. There were initially, but they disappeared during the analysis. This doesn't mean they are unimportant. It simply means they are equally important to every employee, good, bad, and mediocre. Yes, if you are paying 20 percent below the market average, you may have difficulty attracting people. But bringing your pay and benefits package up to market levels, while a sensible first step, will not take you very far. These lands of issues are like tickets to the ballpark—they can get you into the game, but they can't help you win. 

The links between employee opinion and business unit performance seem inevitable—after all, most of us have probably heard ourselves rattle off such cliches as "Happy employees are more productive" or "If you treat your people right, they will treat your customers right." Yet in their attempts to prove these statements, researchers have frequently come up empty-handed. In fact, in most studies, if you test one hundred employee opinion questions, you will be lucky to find five or six that show a strong relationship to any business outcome. Disappointingly, if you repeat the study, you often find that a different set of five or six questions pop up the second time around. 

What about employee retention? Strangely enough, only five of the twelve questions revealed a link to retention: 
1. Do I know what is expected of me at work? 
2. Do I have the materials and equipment I need to do my work right? 
3. Do I have the opportunity todo what I do best every day? 
4. Does my supervisor, or someone at work, seem to care about me as a person?
5. At work, do my opinions seem to count? 

Most people would instinctively agree with the generalisation "Engaged employees will stay longer. But our research suggests that the link between employee opinion and employee retention is subtler and more specific than this kind of generalisation has al lowed. Even more than the rest, these five questions are most directly influenced by the employee's immediate manager. What does this tell us? It tells us that people leave managers, not companies. So much money has been thrown at the challenge of keeping good people—in the form of better pay, better perks, and better training—when, in the end, turnover is mostly a manager issue. If you have a turnover problem, look first to your managers. 

Perhaps the most bizarre discrepancy can be found in the second question. In Store A, 45 percent of employees strongly agreed that they had the materials and equipment they needed to do their work right. In Store B, only 11 percent said "5." The truly odd thing about this is that Store A and Store B had the same materials and equipment; yet the employees' perception of them was utterly different. Everything, even the physical environment, was coloured by the store manager. … These results are compelling. In this company the business units were measurably more productive where the employees answered positively to the twelve questions. Excellent front-line managers had en gaged their employees and these engaged employees had provided the foundation for top performance. 

…if the employee doesn't know what is expected of him as an individual, then you shouldn't ask him to get excited about playing on a team. If he feels as though he is in the wrong role, don't pander to him by telling him how important his innovative ideas are to the company's reengineering efforts. If he doesn't know what his manager thinks of him as an individual, don't confuse him by challenging him to become part of the new "learning organisation" 

Many managers and many companies assume that the answer to all these questions is "Yes." With the best of intentions they tell their employees that everyone has the same potential. They encourage their employees to be open and dedicated to learning new ways to behave. To help them climb up the company hierarchy, they send their employees to training classes designed to teach all manner of new behaviours—empathy, assertiveness, relationship building, innovation, strategic think ing. From their perspective, one of the most admirable qualities an employee can possess is the willingness to transform herself through learning and self-discipline. 
The world's great managers don't share this perspective. 

…make it clear which are skills or knowledge and therefore can be taught, and which are talents and therefore cannot. For example, a competency such as "Implements business practices and controls" is a skill—all managers can learn it to some minimum degree of proficiency. A competency such as "Calm under fire" is a talent—you cannot teach someone to be cool. 

In your attempts to get your people to perform, never try to perfect people. The temptation may be captivatingly strong, but you must resist it. It is a false god. What looks like a miraculous cure-all is actually a dis ease that diminishes the role, demeans the people, and weakens the organisation. 

it is tempting to believe that some roles are so simple that they don't require talent. Hotel housekeepers, outbound telemarketers, and hospital service workers are all examples of roles that conventional wisdom suggests "anyone can do." Misled by this wisdom, many managers don't bother selecting for people who have talent for these roles. They hire virtually anyone who 
applies. Consequently they end up with a hopelessly miscast work force—thousands of employees who see their role as demeaning and who can think only of getting out of it as fast as possible. Thus cursed, their managers respond with strict legislation. They impose a Bible- thick procedure manual on their people in the hope that they can make the role "idiot proof." Their rationale: "IfI give these people the chance to make choices, many of them will use that freedom to make the wrong choices." …the managers challenge is not to perfect people, but to capitalise on each person's uniqueness 

if you are a manager, you may want to try this exercise. On the left-hand side of a blank sheet of paper write down the names of the people who report to you in descending order of productivity, the most productive at the top, the least productive at the bottom. On the right-hand side, write down the same names, but this time in descending order of "time you spend with them," the most time at the top, the least time at the bottom. Now draw straight lines joining the names on the left with the appropriate names on the right.  Many managers find themselves spending the most time with their least productive people and the least time with their most productive people. Investing in your strugglers appears shrewd, yet the most effective managers do the opposite. 
Most managers assume that the point of their role is either to control or to instruct. And, yes, if you see "control" as the core of the manager role, then it would certainly be productive to spend more time with your strugglers because they still need to be controlled. Likewise if you think "instructing" is the essence of management, in vesting most in your strugglers makes similarly good sense because they still have so much to learn. 
But great managers do not place a premium on either control or instruction. Both have their place, particularly with novice employees, but they are not the core: they are too elementary, too static. For great managers, the core of their role is the catalyst role: turning talent into performance. So when they spend time with an employee, they are not fixing or correcting or instructing. Instead they are racking their brains, trying to figure out better and better ways to unleash that employee's distinct talents

My brokers don't work for me. I work for them. If I can't think up any new ideas to help my superstars, the least I can do is grease the administrative wheels so that nothing gets in their way. 

Don't use average to estimate the limits of excellence. You will drastically underestimate what is possible. Focus on your best performers and keep pushing them toward the right-hand edge of the bell curve. It is counterintuitive, but top performers have the most potential for growth. 

You will have to manage around the weaknesses of each and every employee. But if, with one particular employee, you find yourself spending most of your time managing around weaknesses, then know that you have made a casting error. At this point it is time to fix the cast ing error and to stop trying to fix the person. 