Meteorologists know that better than anyone. They make large numbers of forecasts and routinely check their accuracy—which is why we know that one- and two-day forecasts are typically quite accurate while eight-day forecasts are not. With these analyses, meteorologists are able to sharpen their understanding of how weather works and tweak their models. Then they try again. Forecast, measure, revise. Repeat. It’s a never-ending process of incremental improvement that explains why weather forecasts are good and slowly getting better. There may be limits to such improvements, however, because weather is the textbook illustration of nonlinearity. The further out the forecaster tries to look, the more opportunity there is for chaos to flap its butterfly wings and blow away expectations. In so many other high-stakes endeavors, forecasters are groping in the dark. They have no idea how good their forecasts are in the short, medium, or long term—and no idea how good their forecasts could become. At best, they have vague hunches. That’s because the forecast-measure-revise procedure operates only within the rarefied confines of high-tech forecasting, such as the work of macroeconomists at central banks or marketing and financial professionals in big companies or opinion poll analysts like Nate Silver.7 More often forecasts are made and then…nothing.

The market rose today for any one of a hundred different reasons, or a mix of them, so no one knows.” Instead, like a split-brain patient asked why he is pointing at a picture of a shovel when he has no idea why, the journalist conjures a plausible story from whatever is at hand.

If someone asks about climate change, we may say, “I have no training in climatology and haven’t read any of the science. If I tried to answer based on what I know I’d make a mess of it. The knowledgeable people are the climatologists. So I’ll substitute ‘Do most climatologists think climate change is real?’ for ‘Is climate change real?’ 