“When experts insist that their societies are awash in misery, they are unknowingly illustrating one of the big findings in happiness research, which is that people underestimate how happy other people are—we tend to think of ourselves as lucky exceptions.”

“WE’VE SEEN THAT reasonable people are worried about a lack of meaning in their lives. Some not-so-reasonable people worry about it, too. In The Unabomber Manifesto—35,000 words by the domestic terrorist Theodore Kaczynski, who murdered three people and injured many more—Kaczynski distinguishes between three types of goals. There are those that can be satisfied with minimal effort, those that require serious effort, and those that can’t be satisfied at all. Kaczynski complains that the middle category has been lost. As Peter Thiel puts it, summarizing the argument: “What you can do, even a child can do; what you can’t do, even Einstein couldn’t have done.” The solution, according to Kaczynski, is to blow up technology and start anew..…“If everything worth doing has already been done, you may as well feign an allergy to achievement and become a barista”

“Cowen: One result from [your research] is how much people enjoy spending time with their friends. If that’s so much more enjoyable at the margin, why don’t people do more of it?
Kahneman: Altogether, I don’t think that people maximize happiness in that sense. And that’s one of the reasons that I actually left the field of happiness, in that I was very interested in maximizing experience, but this doesn’t seem to be what people want to do. They actually want to maximize their satisfaction with themselves and with their lives. And that leads in completely different directions than the maximization of happiness.”

“….I’m thinking about those who say that they have no concern other than pleasure and insist that this has always been the case.
Maybe they’re just wrong about themselves. As a psychologist, I have no trouble accepting that people can have mistaken theories about what’s going on in their own heads. Freud was surely right that you can think you are doing something for one reason but actually be doing it for another.”

“We respond to differences, not absolutes, and this means that something can become pleasurable not because of any stand-alone properties it has, but rather in contrast to the experience of the past.”

“if you think something is really going to hurt and it hurts just mildly, the magic of contrast can cause this mild hurt to transform into pleasure.”

“Most relevant for the purposes here, one lucky accident of this feature of memory is that pain-then-pleasure is recalled as better than pleasure-then-pain. Because of this, even if the amount of pain, taken in isolation, is the same as the amount of pleasure, if the pain comes first, the distortions of memory decrease the pain and increase the pleasure, improving the whole experience.”

“self-injury should be most common in cases that fall in between—the parents are not so loving that they will help if you just ask, but they are loving enough to help you if they can be convinced that you are in real trouble. There is, as far as I know, no research that tests this idea. Also, cutting is typically done on hidden parts of the body. If you want to send a message, why not cut the face, the neck, or the hands? Hagen and his colleagues are aware of this challenge and have a couple of responses. One is that, for them, this sort of costly signal is an evolved mechanism, not a conscious strategy, so perhaps people have a compulsion to self-injure but then consciously choose to hide it. (Crying evolved as a distress signal, after all, and yet we often hide our tears.) Another possibility is that the point of such a signal is that it isn’t seen as a signal—the self-injurer doesn’t want to be seen as scheming and manipulative. So their injuries have to be discovered, not shown.”

“BOREDOM IS A final example of something unpleasant that’s hard to like. There are haunted houses where monsters jump at you and go boo, but there are no boredom houses where they take away your phone and there’s nothing to read and you have to just sit for a couple of hours.”

“Unlike other masochistic pleasures, it doesn’t capture our attention or our interest (indeed, it does the opposite). It doesn’t lead to escape from the self. It might set up a contrast with future experience—something interesting is probably more interesting if it was preceded by a period of boredom—but apparently the contrast isn’t so great as to make the choice worthwhile.”

“Our minds are in part indifferent to the contrast between experiences in the real world and experiences that are similar to the real world that arise through the imagination. And so we can create and consume surrogates of pleasant real-world experiences, know that they aren’t the real thing, but nonetheless experience the pleasure that they would elicit if they were real.”

“Indeed, some stylization is just what you would expect if fantasy is geared toward practice, because often practice strips away extraneous factors. It’s not true that you have to practice at the same thing you want to get good at. Boxers, for instance, spend time working at the speed bag. This doesn’t look anything like boxing in the ring, and as a simulation it’s incomplete (the bag doesn’t hit back). And yet it is useful practice for the real thing.
I said earlier that our use of the imagination as a tool for pleasure was an evolutionary accident, not an adaptation. But this particular instance is an exception. Imagination-as-practice is an adaptationist theory, positing that our appetite for aversive fictions stems in part from our desire for play and practice, which in turn exists because of the benefits that having this desire had for our ancestors in the past. Those who could imagine bad scenarios and plan them in advance outlived and outreproduced those who could not.”

“...two explanations for the appeal of aversive fictions. First, they capture our interest in obstacles, reflecting what interests us most in the real world. And second, they serve as a form of imaginative play, allowing us to explore, in a safe way, dangerous and difficult situations.”

“Of the top one hundred searches on Pornhub by men, sixteen were incest themed at the time of Stephens-Davidowitz’s study. The most common topic of these searches involved mothers and sons. For women, incest comprised nine out of the top one hundred searches, and the most common involved fathers and daughters...Imaginative pleasures are safe, but safety carries the risk of boredom. If someone waved a handgun in front of me in my office, it would be terrifying, but seeing someone wave a gun in a movie is ho-hum. We are used to it. To compensate, film violence can get very violent indeed. The same habituation takes place for pornography. There are teenage virgins who would swoon if they got kissed on the mouth by someone they found attractive but who have consumed so much pornography that they regularly seek out extreme depictions that I don’t want to talk about in what I like to think of as a family-friendly book....I suspect, then, that the popularity of incest porn might reflect an interest in the taboo, the shocking, and the inappropriate, mostly by people who have become jaded by more vanilla pornographic scenes. (Note also that many of the incestuous themes involve step-relatives, which is taboo but not as wrong.) A similar issue might arise in the interest in looking at leaked sex tapes, revenge porn, hidden cameras—all involving filming or distributing video of people without their consent or knowledge. The immorality here might block some from viewing them but might draw in others, just because it is forbidden.”

“At the same time, though, even the most highbrow fictions offer us the more primitive satisfaction of comeuppance. We enjoy watching bad people get theirs. You probably don’t need the neuroscience here, but just for the sake of completeness, I’ll note that areas of the brain associated with pleasure and reward are active when we witness individuals receiving fair treatment, but they are active as well when we see bad actors getting punished, even if their bad acts weren’t directed at ourselves or anyone we care about.”

“The fatigue of effort is a neural reflection of FOMO—fear of missing out.
From this perspective, the cost of effort isn’t a glitch in the system. It’s valuable, something we would want to include if we were building a humanoid robot that could survive on its own. If someone could effortlessly spend unlimited hours on any task they were engaged with, it would cause them to miss other things, such as social stimulation and social contact. This speaks to why effort gets harder over time—it’s not that a finite pool is being used up; it’s that, as the hours go by, the value of other activities grows.”

“In one of them, people got a series of questions like these:   

You have a six-hour layover in the Budapest airport. Would you rather stay at the airport and watch DVDs on your laptop computer or explore the city in extremely cold weather?
You’re on vacation. Would you stay at a Marriott hotel in Florida or at an ice hotel in Quebec?

For each of the two options, subjects were asked, “Which would be more memorable?,” “Which would be more pleasant?,” and “Which would you choose?” It turned out that the chosen option was typically the most memorable one, even though for every choice pair it was also rated as the least pleasant. Most people said that they would choose to explore Budapest or go to the ice hotel, even though most of them also predicted that staying in the airport and going to Florida would be more pleasant.”

“The researchers found that both of these additions had positive effects. Adding pleasure to a life that students reported was already full of meaning gave them increased good feelings and carefreeness, while adding meaningful activities to a life full of pleasure led to “greater elevating experience.” And when the students were asked to include both types of new activities, there were multiple benefits. As the authors summarize, “Given that we expected both eudaemonia (meaning) and hedonia (pleasure) to contribute to well-being in life, and that we did not see them as mutually exclusive, we expected their combination to be linked with particularly great well-being. We found good support for this prediction. We should be cautious here. These effects are not strong, and this is a college population, not a broad sample of humanity. Still, it fits well with what we know from other studies. When it comes to happiness and meaning, the tagline from the old light beer commercial rings true: You can have it all.”

“But you can also mess things up. If motivational pluralism is true, and I think it is, then a too narrow focus on one sort of motivation can have bad effects.
In particular, it turns out that one can screw up being happy by trying to be happy—or at least by trying to be happy in the wrong way. There are studies that look at the extent to way. There are studies that look at the extent to which people are motivated to pursue happiness, by asking them to rate themselves on items such as “Feeling happy is extremely important to me” and “How happy I am at any given moment says a lot about how worthwhile my life is.” The people who highly agree with such items are less likely to get good outcomes in life and more likely to be depressed and lonely.”