The stock market is a curious place because everyone participat- ing in it is loosely interested in the same thing—making money. Still, there is no uniform path to achieving this rather uniform goal. You may be only a few mouse clicks away from purchasing the popular book The Warren Buffett Way,1 but only one man has ever truly followed the path of Warren Buffett. In investing, it is hard enough to succeed as an original; as a copycat, it is virtually impos- sible. Each of us must carve out a personal way to investment suc- cess, even if you are a professional investor. 

Berkshire Hathaway pays Warren Buffett an annual salary of $100,000 for arguably the finest capital allocation skills in the world. Buffett receives no bonus, no stock options, and no restricted stock, let alone hedge-fund-style performance fees.5 It certainly seems like investors considering an investment in a highly prized hedge fund should first convince themselves that their prospective fund manager can beat Buffett. Doing this on a pre- fee basis is hard enough; on an after-fee basis, the odds diminish considerably. 

the recipe for evaluating a business purchase is the same whether the stock market is open or closed. 

In the long run, the income of most businesses does relate to the net assets a business has at its disposal. This is espe- cially true for businesses that exhibit high capital intensity. They may earn abnormal returns on capital employed for a while due to an imbalance of supply and demand or some other transient factor, but virtually all such businesses revert to the mean. Investors suffer mightily when they overestimate the duration of the abnormal earn- ing period of a business. 

Timing remains a tricky issue, but if an investor’s value appraisal is correct, rewards typically await. 

States Nick Kirrage, fund manager of Specialist Value UK Equities at Schroders: 
Staffing businesses . . . have big fixed overheads and quite volatile top lines, and profits can be quite volatile. Typically, the staffing industry understands this, and they therefore run with balance sheets that are either heavily net cash or very lowly geared. But the market becomes very focused (on) short- term profits, so once (per) cycle, the share prices collapse very, very strongly, and people just assume that profits either won’t recover or it will take too long for them to recover—and they can’t really be bothered to wait. For people who are willing to wait for three to five years, that’s wonderful, because you’re not taking balance sheet risk. Therefore, the chance of you permanently losing money is very low. The chance of you making quite a lot of money, because the operating leverage works both ways, is very high 

James Montier, port- folio manager at GMO: “People love extrapolation and forget that cycles exist. The good news is that you get paid for doing uncom- fortable things, when stocks are at trough earnings and low mul- tiples their implied return is high, in contrast you don’t get paid for doing things that are comfortable.” 
