…researchers have shown that novelty is associated with reward processing in our brains. This is not surprising, as novelty seeking is a powerful driving force to explore new environments, and thus offers clear survival advantages. The novelty load is undoubtedly higher when frequently switching between new tasks than when just staying put, so it is logical that the overall reward gains, and thus the fun factor as well, are heightened when multitasking. In addition, the act of receiving an earlier reward is often more highly valued, even if a delayed reward has greater overall associated value. 

…We engage in interference-inducing behaviours because, from an evolutionary perspective, we are merely acting in an optimal manner to satisfy our innate drive to seek information. Critically, the current conditions of our modern, high-tech world perpetuate this behaviour by offering us greater accessibility to feed this instinctive drive and also via their influence on internal factors such as boredom and anxiety. 

The results of our study are consistent with many other studies that have shown when we simultaneously pursue multiple goals that compete for cognitive control resources, our brains switch between tasks—they do not parallel process. 

a failure to ignore information results in overrepresenting the distracting piece of information, which in turn interferes with maintaining the relevant representations in mind, which leads to diminished success in goal-directed behaviour. …failure to effectively ignore irrelevant information has direct consequences for our success at holding relevant information in mind for brief periods of time.

ask a friend to recall in detail what he had for dinner last night. Make sure you watch his eyes carefully. You will likely see that he looks away from you before he answers. This tendency to look away has actually been associated with better memory recall 

…The results of this experiment revealed that their ability to remember details, as indicated by an accurate report of the number of objects in the previously viewed image, was significantly diminished when their eyes were open and there was a picture in front of them, compared to either their eyes being shut, or their eyes being open while they faced a gray screen….looking at the gray screen revealed the same memory quality as having their eyes closed. It was the presence of the busy scene that resulted in the distraction effect 

… a new group of participants performed exactly the same long-term memory test, except here they always kept their eyes open while viewing a gray screen. The twist was that they answered the memory questions either in silence, while white noise played, or while they heard busy restaurant chatter that they were instructed to ignore. We found that their ability to recall the details of the visual memories were just as diminished by the auditory distractions (restaurant chatter) as they were by the visual distractions (busy picture) 

…research study used an iPhone app to randomly present questions to college students asking if at that very moment they were focusing their attention on what they were doing or if their mind was wandering. Strikingly, the study revealed that 47 percent of randomly sampled moments throughout the day were occurrences of mind wandering. In addition, they found that people were generally less happy while mind wandering, seemingly independent of the type of activity that they were engaged in at the time. 

…[working memory] capacity may be seven for digits, but six for letters, five for words, only three or four for objects—and for stimuli as complex as a face, the working memory span may be two or even one. 

…These results demonstrate that overprocessing irrelevant information diminishes the fidelity of a working memory trace. Cognitive scientist Dr. Edward Vogel and colleagues showed that distraction also influences working memory capacity, in that individuals who exhibit greater distractibility by irrelevant information have a lower capacity. 

Our brains do not parallel process information, as demanded by many of our daily activities, if those activities both require cognitive control. This failure of our brain to truly multitask at a neural level represents a major limitation in our ability to manage our goals. The process of neural network switching is associated with a decrease in accuracy, often for both tasks, and a time delay compared to doing one task at a time. Known as multitasking or task-switching costs, these decrements in performance occur for both types of goal management. You can think of these costs as the price you pay for trying to do more than one thing at a time. 

Cognitive control gradually and steadily matures and develops throughout the course of brain development, reaching a peak in the early twenties…This pinnacle of cognitive control is immediately followed by a slippery slope of decline as we approach middle age, with an almost ubiquitous march downward as we advance into our senior years. 

…result of a twin study revealed that a self-report distractibility measure showed a significant degree of genetic influence, suggesting that at least some aspects of the Distracted Mind may indeed be inherited as trait 