“We’re interested in what is happening inside the player’s mind. Who is telling whom what? Most players are talking to themselves on the court all the time. “Get up for the ball.” “Keep it to his backhand.” “Keep your eyes on the ball.” “Bend your knees.” The commands are endless. For some, it’s like hearing a tape recording of the last lesson playing inside their head. Then, after the shot is made, another thought flashes through the mind and might be expressed as follows: “You clumsy ox, your grandmother could play better!” One day I asked myself an important question—Who was talking to whom? Who was scolding and who being scolded? “I’m talking to myself,” say most people. But just who is this “I” and who the “myself”?”

“Imagine that instead of being parts of the same person, Self 1 (teller) and Self 2 (doer) are two separate persons. How would you characterize their relationship after witnessing the following conversation between them? The player on the court is trying to make a stroke improvement. “Okay, dammit, keep your stupid wrist firm,” he orders. Then as ball after ball comes over the net, Self 1 reminds Self 2, “Keep it firm. Keep it firm. Keep it firm!” Monotonous? Think how Self 2 must feel! It seems as though Self 1 thinks Self 2 doesn’t hear well, or has a short memory, or is stupid. The truth is, of course, that Self 2, which includes the unconscious mind and nervous system, hears everything, never forgets anything, and is anything but stupid. After hitting the ball firmly once, it knows forever which muscles to contract to do it again. That’s its nature.
And what’s going on during the hit itself? If you look closely at the face of the player, you will see that his cheek muscles are tightening and his lips are pursed in effort and attempted concentration. But tightened face muscles aren’t required to hit the backhand, nor“But tightened face muscles aren’t required to hit the backhand, nor do they help concentration. Who’s initiating that effort? Self 1, of course. But why? He’s supposed to be the teller, not the doer, but it seems he doesn’t really trust Self 2 to do the job or else he wouldn’t have to do all the work himself. This is the nub of the problem: Self 1 does not trust Self 2, even though it embodies all the potential you have developed up to that moment and is far more competent to control the muscle system than Self 1.”

“The first step is to see your [actions] as they are. They must be perceived clearly. This can be done only when personal judgment is absent. As soon as a [action] is seen clearly and accepted as it is, a natural and speedy process of change begins.”

“Always looking for approval and wanting to avoid disapproval, this subtle ego-mind sees a compliment as a potential criticism. It reasons, “If the pro is pleased with one kind of performance, he will be displeased by the opposite. If he likes me for doing well, he will dislike me for not doing well.” The standard of good and bad had been established, and the inevitable result was divided concentration and ego-interference.”

“In short, there is no need to fight old habits. Start new ones. It is the resisting of an old habit that puts you in that trench. Starting a new pattern is easy when done with childlike disregard for imagined difficulties. You can prove this to yourself by your own experience.”

“Winning is overcoming obstacles to reach a goal, but the value in winning is only as great as the value of the goal reached. Reaching the goal itself may not be as valuable as the experience that can come in making a supreme effort to overcome the obstacles involved. The process can be more rewarding than the victory itself.”

“Once one recognizes the value of having difficult obstacles to overcome, it is a simple matter to see the true benefit that can be gained from competitive sports. In tennis who is it that provides a person with the obstacles he needs in order to experience his highest limits? His opponent, of course! Then is your opponent a friend or an enemy? He is a friend to the extent that he does his best to make things difficult for you. Only by playing the role of your enemy does he become your true friend. Only by competing with you does he in fact cooperate!”